<!--
Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
(the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at 
 
    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 
Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
-->


Accumulo Stress Test
--------------------

This is an attempt to observe the behavior Accumulo displays when compacting and reading these cells. There are two components to this package: `org.apache.accumulo.test.stress.random.Write` and `org.apache.accumulo.test.stress.random.Scan`.

Since this test is meant to stress the system, there is no pre-defined test period and no success criteria that we can programmatically check. During a successful test period, the Accumulo cluster should remain stable and functional. Possible failure conditions include component failures, such as tablet servers running out of memory.

The `org.apache.accumulo.test.stress.random.Write` utility provides facilities for writing random sized cells. Users can configure minimum and maximum sized portions of a cell. The portions users can configure are the row, column family, column qualifier and value. Note that the sizes are uniformly distributed between the minimum and maximum values

The `org.apache.accumulo.test.stress.random.Scan` utility provides users with the ability to query tables generated by the Write. It will pick a tablet at random and scan the entire range. The amount of times this process is performed is user configurable. By default, it happens 1,024 times. Users can also specify whether or not the scan should be isolated or not.

There is no shared state intended by either of these services. This allows multiple clients to be run in parallel, either on the same host or distributedacross hosts.

See the provided `test/system/stress/writer.sh` and `test/system/stress/reader.sh` scripts for example configuration options and how to launch the processes.

