---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.6.6
redirect_from: /release_notes/1.6.6.html
---

Apache Accumulo 1.6.6 is a maintenance release on the 1.6 version branch. This
release contains changes from more than 40 issues, comprised of bug-fixes,
performance improvements, build quality improvements, and more. See
[JIRA][JIRA_166] for a complete list.

Below are resources for this release:

* [User Manual](/1.6/accumulo_user_manual.html)
* [Javadocs](/1.6/apidocs)
* [Examples](/1.6/examples)

Users of any previous 1.6.x release are strongly encouraged to update as soon
as possible to benefit from the improvements with very little concern in change
of underlying functionality.

As of this release, active development has ceased for the 1.6 release line, so
users should consider upgrading to a newer, actively maintained version when
they can. While the developers may release another 1.6 version to address a
severe issue, there's a strong possibility that this will be the last 1.6
release. That would also mean that this will be the last Accumulo version to
support Java 6 and Hadoop 1.

## Highlights

### Write-Ahead Logs can be prematurely deleted

There were cases where the Accumulo Garbage Collector may inadvertently delete
a WAL for a tablet server that it has erroneously determined to be down,
causing data loss. This has been corrected. See [ACCUMULO-4157][ACCUMULO-4157]
for additional detail.

### Upgrade to Commons-VFS 2.1

Upgrading to Apache Commons VFS 2.1 fixes several issues with classloading out
of HDFS. For further detail see [ACCUMULO-4146][ACCUMULO-4146]. Additional
fixes to a potential HDFS class loading deadlock situation were made in
[ACCUMULO-4341][ACCUMULO-4341].

### Native Map failed to increment mutation count properly

There was a bug ([ACCUMULO-4148][ACCUMULO-4148]) where multiple put calls with
identical keys and no timestamp would exhibit different behaviour depending on
whether native maps were enabled or not. This behaviour would result in hidden
mutations with native maps, and has been corrected.

### Open WAL files could prevent DataNode decomission

An improvement was introduced to allow a max age before WAL files would be
automatically rolled. Without a max age, they could stay open for writing
indefinitely, blocking the Hadoop DataNode decomissioning process. For more
information, see [ACCUMULO-4004][ACCUMULO-4004].

### Remove unnecessary copy of cached RFile index blocks

Accumulo maintains an cache for file blocks in-memory as a performance
optimization. This can be done safely because Accumulo RFiles are immutable,
thus their blocks are also immutable. There are two types of these blocks:
index and data blocks. Index blocks refer to the b-tree style index inside of
each Accumulo RFile, while data blocks contain the sorted Key-Value pairs. In
previous versions, when Accumulo extracted an Index block from the in-memory
cache, it would copy the data. [ACCUMULO-4164][ACCUMULO-4164] removes this
unnecessary copy as the contents are immutable and can be passed by reference.
Ensuring that the Index blocks are not copied when accessed from the cache is a
big performance gain at the file-access level.

### Analyze Key-length to avoid choosing large Keys for RFile Index blocks

Accumulo's RFile index blocks are made up of a Key which exists in the file and
points to that specific location in the corresponding RFile data block. Thus,
the size of the RFile index blocks is largely dominated by the size of the Keys
which are used by the index. [ACCUMULO-4314][ACCUMULO-4314] is an improvement
which uses statistics on the length of the Keys in the Rfile to avoid choosing
Keys for the index whose length is greater than three standard deviations for
the RFile. By choosing smaller Keys for the index, Accumulo can access the
RFile index faster and keep more Index blocks cached in memory. Initial tests
showed that with this change, the RFile index size was nearly cut in half.

### Gson version bump

Due to an [upstream bug with Gson 2.2.2][GSONBUG], we've bumped our bundled
dependency ([ACCUMULO-4345][ACCUMULO-4345]) to version 2.2.4. Please take note
of this when you upgrade, if you were using the version shipped with Accumulo,
and were relying on the buggy behavior in the previous version in your own
code.

### Minor performance improvements.

A performance issue was identified and corrected
([ACCUMULO-1755][ACCUMULO-1755]) where the BatchWriter would block calls to
addMutation while looking up destination tablet server metadata. The writer has
been fixed to allow both operations in parallel.


## Other Notable Changes

 * [ACCUMULO-4155][ACCUMULO-4155] No longer publish javadoc for non-public API
   to website. (Still available in javadoc jars in maven)
 * [ACCUMULO-4334][ACCUMULO-4334] Ingest rates reported through JMX did not
   match rates reported by Monitor.
 * [ACCUMULO-4335][ACCUMULO-4335] Error conditions that result in a Halt should
   ensure non-zero process exit code.

## Testing

Each unit and functional test only runs on a single node, while the RandomWalk
and Continuous Ingest tests run on any number of nodes. *Agitation* refers to
randomly restarting Accumulo processes and Hadoop Datanode processes, and, in
HDFS High-Availability instances, forcing NameNode failover.

{: #release_notes_testing .table }
| OS/Environment | Hadoop | Nodes | ZooKeeper | HDFS HA | Tests                            |
|----------------|--------|-------|-----------|---------|----------------------------------|
| CentOS 7       | 1.2.1  | 1     | 3.3.6     | No      | Unit tests and Integration Tests |
| CentOS 7       | 2.2.0  | 1     | 3.3.6     | No      | Unit tests and Integration Tests |

[JIRA_166]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12312121&version=12334846

[GSONBUG]: https://github.com/google/gson/issues/362

[ACCUMULO-1755]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-1755
[ACCUMULO-4004]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4004
[ACCUMULO-4146]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4146
[ACCUMULO-4148]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4148
[ACCUMULO-4155]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4155
[ACCUMULO-4157]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4157
[ACCUMULO-4164]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4164
[ACCUMULO-4314]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4314
[ACCUMULO-4334]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4334
[ACCUMULO-4335]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4335
[ACCUMULO-4341]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4341
[ACCUMULO-4345]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4345
