---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.5.4 Release Notes
---

Apache Accumulo 1.5.4 is one more bug-fix release for the 1.5 series. Like 1.5.3 before it, this release contains a
very small changeset when considering the normal size of changes in a release.

This release contains no changes to the [public API][api]. As such, there are no concerns
for the compatibility of user code running against 1.5.3. All users are encourage to upgrade
immediately without concern of stability and compatibility.

A full list of changes is available via [CHANGES][CHANGES].

We'd like to thank all of the committers and contributors which had a part in
making this release, from code contributions to testing. Everyone's efforts are
greatly appreciated.

## Correctness Bugs

### Silent data-loss via bulk imported files

A user recently reported that a simple bulk-import application would occasionally lose some records. Through investigation,
it was found that when bulk imports into a table failed the initial assignment, the logic that automatically retries
the imports was incorrectly choosing the tablets to import the files into. [ACCUMULO-3967][ACCUMULO-3967] contains
more information on the cause and identification of the bug. The data-loss condition would only affect entire files.
If records from a file exist in Accumulo, it is still guaranteed that all records within that imported file were
successful.

As such, users who have bulk import applications using previous versions of Accumulo should verify that all of their
data was correctly ingested into Accumulo and immediately update to Accumulo 1.5.4.

Thanks to Edward Seidl for reporting this bug to us!

## Server-side auditing changes

Thanks to James Mello for reporting and providing the fixes to the following server-side auditing issues.

### Incorrect audit initialization

It was observed that the implementation used to audit user API requests on Accumulo server processes
was not being correctly initialized which caused audit messages to never be generated. This was rectified
in [ACCUMULO-3939][ACCUMULO-3939].

### Missing audit implementations

It was also observed that some server-side API implementations did not include audit messages which resulted
in an incomplete historical picture on what operations a user might have invoked. The missing audits (and those
that were added) are described in [ACCUMULO-3946][ACCUMULO-3946].

## Testing

Each unit and functional test only runs on a single node, while the RandomWalk
and Continuous Ingest tests run on any number of nodes. *Agitation* refers to
randomly restarting Accumulo processes and Hadoop DataNode processes, and, in
HDFS High-Availability instances, forcing NameNode fail-over.

{: #release_notes_testing .table }
| OS         | Hadoop | Nodes | ZooKeeper | HDFS High-Availability | Tests                                                          |
|------------|--------|-------|-----------|------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
| OSX        | 2.6.0  | 1     | 3.4.5     | No                     | Unit and Functional Tests                                      |
| Centos 6.5 | 2.7.1  | 6     | 3.4.5     | No                     | Continuous Ingest and Verify (10B entries), Randomwalk (24hrs) |

[ACCUMULO-3967]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-3967
[ACCUMULO-3939]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-3939
[ACCUMULO-3946]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-3946
[api]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/blob/1.7.0/README.md#api
[CHANGES]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12312121&version=12333106
